## What do you think about design justice? How might you apply it in your designs going forward?


I think that design justice certainly needs to be considered at every step of the design process. An important theme that I drew from Albert's presentation is the fact that we try to invent our way out of problems that plague society without truly remedying it because we avoid addressing the root cause. Designing with design justice in mind will help mitigate this issue instead of just solving superficial problems. One example that I have recently come across is a newly installed bench designed with disability inclusivity in mind. The bench is just a normal bench except there was a wide gap in the middle for wheelchair access. However, it seemed more like an excuse to build a bench that deters homeless people from sleeping on it than anything. The problem at large here is homelessness, but the city decided to try to "fix" this issue by hiding under the guise of inclusivity. The designers that created this bench did not have design justice in mind as they either failed to consider homeless people or actively chose to exclude them. 

Going forward, I hope to greater understand who my designs affect and how people will benefit or suffer from the designs I make. I hope to do this by interviewing people from diverse backgrounds when it comes to usability tests and surveying. I plan to really listen to user feedback above all else and make sure that I do not misconstrue their answers. 
